.\" Man pages for vidcutmerger.sh

.TH man 1 "2013-10-17" "1.0" "vidcutmerger man pages"

.SH NAME
.B "vidcutmerger v0.12"

Cutting clips out of a video file and merging them.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "vidcutmerger" 
-i VideoFile [-o OutputBaseName] [-t CutPoints] [-m] [-f fmt] [-a AEnc] [-v VEnc] [-d] [-h] [-V]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This script cuts an input video file (see -i option) according to the cutting points stored in a text file (see -t option).
.br
Each line in the text file holds the starting and ending point of a clip to be cut.

.SH OPTIONS

.B -i VideoFile
.br
VideoFile is the input file that will be cut into clips according the other script parameters. 

.B -o OutputBaseName
.br
OutputBaseName is the base name of output clips. Consecutive numbers and the original extension of the VideoFile are added to create clip file names:
.br
	OutputBaseName-NNN.EXT
.br
If the option is left out, the OutputBaseName defaults to "out".
.P
OutputBaseName does not need to include a file extension. However, if it does, the extension is interpreted as the format (FMT, see -f below) of the newly merged video file. Note that clips are not encoded into the FMT format, and retain the original input video file extension (EXT).
.br
Also note that by including the format extension in the OutputBaseName, you set the 
.B -f FMT 
option and this setting takes precedence over whatever you may set the 
.B -f FMT 
option to. The 
.B -m 
option is also set automatically up.

.B -t CutPoints
.br
The CutPoints is a text file that lists cutting points. Each line specifies the starting and stopping times. The format of the line is
.br
	[[h:]m:]s [[h:]m:]s
.br
where h, m, and s are single or two-digit numbers (including zero padded numbers) denoting hours, minutes, and seconds respectively. The starting and ending points are separated by a single space. 
.br
The format
.br
	hh:mm:ss hh:mm:ss
.br
is also acceptable as a subset of the general format.
.br
Warning. No extra characters are allowed after the ending point.
.br
If the option is left out, the script looks for a file VideoFile.cut (see -i option); and if that file is not found, stops.

.B -m
.br
If used, the option tells the script to merge clips into OutputBaseName.fmt.
If the option is left out, no merging of clips is done unless any of the -f, -a, -v is used explicitly, or if the "-o Output" file name includes an extension.

.B -f FMT
.br
FMT denotes the video format of the output file to merge. If not set, EXT is used.
If this option is used, it sets merging on. 
.br
See the -o option, too.

.B -a AEnc
.br
An audio encoder used only to create the merged file:  BaseClipName.FMT
If the option is used, it sets merging on.

.B -v VEnc
.br
A video encoder used only to create the merged file:  BaseClipName.FMT
If the option is used, it sets merging on.

.B -d
Switches on the debug mode to print information about some script variables and the encoding progress if the original format (EXT) is re-encoded into another format (FMT).

.B -h 
Displays a basic help message.

.B -V 
Displays the script version.

.SH EXAMPLES

.I vidcutmerger -i example1.mp4
.br
The script looks for example1.cut with cutting points. If it finds the file, creates out-001.mp4, out-002.mp4,... and ends. If it does not find example.cut, the script is terminated immediately.

.I vidcutmerger -i example2.mp4 -f avi
.br
A file named out.avi is created by merging clips defined by example2.cut. The clips are removed afterwards.

.I vidcutmerger -i example3.mp4 -o output.avi
.br
A file output.avi is created by merging mp4 clips. The cutting points are read from example3.cut. The clips are removed afterwards.

.I vidcutmerger -i example4.mp4 -o xyz -t mycuts -d
.br
No merging is done. Just xyz-NNN.mp4 clips are cut according to a file named mycuts. The -d option makes the output verbose. If the -m option were used additionally, a file xyz.mp4 would be created and all the xyz-NNN.mp4 clips would be removed.

./"SEE ALSO
./"A list of related commands or functions.

.SH BUGS
.br
Not a bug really, but ffmpeg does not create vstats_file (see ffmpeg man pages) when it merges clips without recoding, i.e. when audio and video codecs are "copy".

.SH AUTHOR
Wiesław Magusiak <w.magusiak at gmail . com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Do what you like with the vidcutmerger. However, no warranty is given, and no responsible is taken for the use.
